# Initial Proposal: 

1. Topics: While analyzing the culture and history of various library information centers, we have decided to focus our project around banned books. In the 90s, the question of what constitutes a book that is safe for the general public was fiercely debated, especially when regarding the school sector.

In the google Ngram chart png in this folder, we see that the term experienced a major jump as education became more standardized and equal for everyone. Another interesting aspect is the concept of “Banned Books” seeing almost no traction in the nineteenth century. This is where the historical aspect of our topic appears, as book bannings have existed since the fifteenth century. These periods of when the term “book banning” spikes when significant cultural and political turnover takes place, explaining the spike in 1940; the German Reich banned/burned millions of books in their effort to remove an entire group of people. Understanding the current social state of an area is crucial to understanding why these bannings happen. To demonstrate this shift, we are aiming to find datasets and records of book bannings, specifically through the ALA. We also plan to organize the books in the dataset by genre, year published, and potentially the year banned if sufficient information exists. Finally, we can analyze trends and data clusters to make conclusions about the present and the past. In order to achieve this objective, we will have rotating teams of researchers, writers, coding, and project managers. 

2. Materials:

For our materials, we’re going to look both digitally and physically. Online, we will search for datasets that relate to banned books of all kinds, perhaps where, why, and when these books were banned. We are going to look through the ALA’s online website, and Google search online for any possible datasets relating to banned books. The other thing we will do is look in the Archives Research Center for historical information relating to banned books that might not be online. It might be difficult to find any sort of dataset in the archives, and we may have to resort to making our own datasets from what we find there. By combining information both online and in-person, we hope to create a comprehensive list of banned books from the past and from the present, and compare the two. 

3. Division of Labor:

We have set roles for every group member so that we can maintain an organized workflow throughout this project. Our order for project manager starts with Rebeca, and then continues in the order of Aditi, Avery, Ryan, Henry and Lhaye. For our project, we plan to compare our dataset to other historical datasets, so there is a lot of research involved beyond finding our initial dataset. Our online research will be done by Lhaye, Henry and Rebeca. In addition to online, we have decided it best to look through the UIUC archives to find useful resources stored at the university for our project. This archive research will be done by Aditi, Ryan and Rebeca. Any written portions of the project will be done by Henry, Aditi and Avery. Lastly, there is a clear need for web scraping in this assignment, as well as data analysis. The coding portion of this project will be done by Avery, Ryan and Henry. In order to maintain communication within the group, we have set up a group chat. This helps ensure that everyone is doing their part, and it helps us coordinate meetings whether they are over zoom or in person.

4. Timeline:

For our project timeline, it’s best to divide it into five phases to easily distribute through research,data collection, analysis and revisions. Throughout the whole project, we will rotate weekly among group members with the job as project manager. Since we have about 10 weeks left for the project, we will allocate 2 weeks within each phase, allowing us to gather our data and make time for certain challenges within that period. In the first phase, we will start off conducting preliminary research on banned books and searching for dataset through online sources such as the ASA website or the UIUC Archives. During the second phase, we will start to organize all our findings and sort them through genre, year published, and the years banned. We will try to make sure to set time on addressing missing values, incomplete data from our sources and analyzing if they are of importance. In the third phase, we will conduct research similar to what was done in phase two, however we will analyze the data using web scraping and finding coding methods that work well to analyze banned books over time within the websites we find. This phase would take longer or be more complex from the other phases, as we might have issues merging dataset or performing web scraping efficiently. To address this, it’s best that we separate roles during this phase, so while some group members focus on web scraping, others will begin phase 4. Following this in phase four, we will draft our findings where we will have 1-3 designated people who will write out a report. We will also create a visual representation of our findings, where we will also have 1-3 designated group members create a graph or anytype of visual representation. Finally phase five, is our overall revisions. As a team we will create a mock presentation where we get to see how our project will look to others. From there, we will revise what is needed and ensure all documentation is complete to be pushed into github.